Let's go back to our example project.
So far, we have to find our own components and give them our own types, which we have defined in terms
of creative convention plug ins.
So we have two components of type my Java library and one of type my application.
To get a running application.
In the end, these components need to work together in some way.
We've already added the data class, which is called message model to our data model component.
This component is fine.
It shouldn't have anything else.
Let's move on to the business logic component because this is now a Java library and Intel knows about
that.
We can also create a Java source folder here easily.
Let's put a class into this folder, which we call print service.
This service should use the message model class.
Read the message from the model and print it to the screen.
Let's write the code for this.
You'll notice that you won't get any code completion or something for the message model class.
This is because the class is not known in this component, because we defined it in the data model component.
And for now, this component are completely independent.
So to connect to components, you need to define a dependency in Gradle.
In our case, we want the business logic component to depend on the data model component.
That's why we need to go into the build file of the business logic component.
Dependencies are defined in the dependencies block.
The first thing you need is a scope or also coat configuration in greater terms.
We'll talk about this later in a lecture specific on this topic.
If you get started, you can just use the implementation scope for all the dependencies which we are
going to do in this part.
Then after the scope, you define the coordinates of the other component.
I already mentioned this in the previous lecture where we added a dependency to the jar that contains
the spotless plugin.
Now, if the other component is a local project, you can write a shorter by using the project keyword.
So you have our project and then the path of the project, how it's called, which is essentially the
project name with the colon in front.
So this is how we add the dependency to our own data model component.
That's also the dependency to another external component that is fetched from repository.
Let's say we want to use Apache Common Loan.
So now we use the coordinates notation for components, which is a group colon and name colon and a
version.
Because it's an external component.
Again, we need a version to decide which version of the component we want to use.
For local components.
We don't have versions because they are built from the latest local state.
For external components, it's also better to not define the version here, but put them into a central
place so that we don't get a versions over all our build files and potentially also create version conflicts
if we define different versions for the same component.
This will be a topic of a later lecture.
For now, we keep the version here to have it working.
Now, if we think the project was intelligent, IntelliJ also reads the dependency information from
Gradle.
It now knows that the business logic depends on the data model.
This has the effect that the classes compiled in the data model project are seen when the Business Logic
Project is compiled.
So we see that now the class is known and if we extend the implementation of the prison service, intelligence
also suggests to us to use classes from Java common slang because is also known here now.
Let's also add dependencies to our project.
So we go to the corresponding build gradle file at the dependencies block.
And add a dependency to the data model project.
And to the Business Logic Project, because our application has to depend on all of our components because
they are all part of the final product.
And the application project.
We also had a Java source folder.
And in the folder we add an application class.
So this is a simple command line Java application.
So we add a main method and in the method we can now access our service, create a message model and
put it into the service so that the application should print this message.
We have defined here as an example.
Now that we have an application main class, we can tell Gradle that this class is the entry point of
the application so that we enable Gradle to actually run the application.
For this.
The application plugin added an extension.
So in the build file of our project, we Tegretol, which the main class of the application is.
Note that in this case it is fine to do this configuration directly in the build file as it is very
specific to this one component.
The subproject, the application class does not exist again anywhere else.
However, if my application type or my application convention plugin is something that you only use
in this one place as well, you could move this configuration into that convention plugin.
That's a question of taste.
Both solutions are fine from my perspective.
With that, we have a complete software project set up with Gradle.
Following best practices, we can now go and run Gradle builds.
So in this section, we edit the last missing piece to make our project complete.
We added the dependencies between the components so that they can work together.
Gradle is very powerful regarding dependency management, so there will be more lectures on the topic
later on because if you use a lot of external components, you also have to deal with versioning and
version conflicts as already indicated in this lecture.
For now, for this rather small project, everything is great as it is now, and we can go and run gradle,
build, explore what Gradle is doing and how it builds efficiently.
With that, we can then learn what other details we might want to configure and what impact this will
have.